Title: 2016 Fundraiser
Tags: fundraiser, 2016
Slug: fundraisers/2016/


<div class="row">
    <div class="col-xs-12 col-sm-8 col-md-9">
        <p class="lead">Free Law Project is dedicated to opening legal data, using technology to support legal research, and making the legal industry more competitive and innovative. Today we're asking for your support so that we can expand our successes into 2017.
        </p>
    </div>
    <div class="col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-3">
        <span class="pull-right"><a href="https://www.courtlistener.com/donate/?referrer=2016-big-button" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">Donate Now</a></span>
    </div>
</div>


## Successes in 2016

The last year was our most successful ever. We launched three big projects including [a new archive for PACER content][ra], [a comprehensive database of thousands of judges][judges], and [a visualization tool for Supreme Court cases][viz]. CourtListener had more than two million visits, served more than eight million API requests, and sent more than thirty thousand alert emails notifying people about new case law. 

We had our most active year for political advocacy, including [a letter to the Second Circuit urging them to place their entire collection of oral arguments online][ca2-oral], [four][pacer1] [blog][pacer2] [posts][pacer3] [highlighting][pacer4] [the PACER problem][problem] and advocating for reform, and several letters to the Tenth and Eleventh Circuits urging them to put oral arguments on their websites.

On top of this, we had numerous small successes:

 - CourtListener became the biggest archive of oral argument audio in the world, with [more than 600 days of audio recordings][600].
 - We [started][service-launch] [Free Law Project data services][service] to further support the organization.
 - We added [authorship information][author] and [campaign finance information][cfi] to our judge profiles making it easy to analyze the work a judge does and compare it to their major sources of campaign funding.
 - We [launched][flp-launch] a new website at [Free.law][flp].
 - We created [two][cl1] [new][cl2] versions of CourtListener and a number of enhancements:
     - We announced [citation searching and alerting][cite-search].
     - We overhauled the [CourtListener API and launched a new version][api].
     - We added more than [60,000 citations to our historical Supreme Court cases][scdb].
     - We added [29 new jurisdictions to our opinion search][29].
     - We created [millions of short form case names][short], many edited by hand.
 - We created the first ever [spreadsheet of legal reporters][csv] to aid developers and researchers.

All of this work has enhanced the state of legal technology and legal data and has created a more fair and innovative justice system.  


## The Plan for 2017

We need your support as we head into 2017. We have several big goals for the year, and we will not be able to accomplish them without your help:

1. We will launch a new clearinghouse for RECAP and PACER data, finally creating an easy avenue for researchers and organizations to access the workings of the federal courts. We expect this to be our most valuable service ever, and for it to make millions of documents available to the public for the first time.
 
1. We will download all of the free opinions from PACER and make them available on CourtListener, where they can be easily studied, searched and downloaded.
 
1. We will add more judges to our judicial database, making it the most complete resource for researchers and the public.
 
1. We will flesh out our collection of historical opinions, making it larger and more complete than any other free archive. We will complete an audit of the data so that our users will have no doubts as to its quality.

All of the above tasks will take considerable effort, but will lead to a more open, transparent, and innovative judicial system. Once this work is done, it will never need to be done again.

If you find our work valuable, **please donate today**. Free Law Project is a federally recognized 501(c)(3) non-profit and all donations are tax deductible. 

<p><a href="https://www.courtlistener.com/donate/?referrer=2016-big-button-2" class="btn btn-lg btn-primary">Donate Now</a></p>


## Thank You.

This past year we have had support from [many sources][thanks] including individuals, organizations, and academic departments, too numerous to list here. 

Thank you all for your generous support as we head into the next year.


[flp]: https://free.law/
[ra]: {filename}/launching-a-new-recap-archive.md
[judges]: {filename}/judge_database.md
[viz]: {filename}/viz.md
[ca2-oral]: {filename}/ca2-to-finally-do-oral-args.md
[pacer1]: {filename}/pacer-revenue.md
[pacer2]: {filename}/the-biggest-dockets-in-recap.md
[pacer3]: {filename}/pacer-billion-documents.md
[pacer4]: {filename}/what-is-a-pacer-page.md
[problem]: {filename}/what-is-the-pacer-problem.md
[600]: https://twitter.com/courtlistener/status/800773734273454082
[author]: {filename}/judge-authorship.md 
[cfi]: {filename}/judge-campaign-finance-data.md
[flp-launch]: {filename}/brand-new-website-and-domain.md
[cl1]: {filename}/brand-new-courtlistener-a-year-in-the-works.md
[cl2]: {filename}/navbar.md
[cite-search]: {filename}/citation-searching.md
[api]: {filename}/api-v-3.md
[scdb]: {filename}/legacy-scdb.md
[29]: {filename}/termination-dates-on-cl.md
[short]: {filename}/short-form-case-names.md
[service-launch]: {filename}/announcing-data-services.md
[service]: {filename}/pages/data-services.md
[csv]: {filename}/reporters-csv.md
[thanks]: {filename}/pages/thanks.md
