---
title: Our 2019 Annual Fundraiser
type: page
---


<div className="row">
    <div className="col-xs-12 col-sm-8 col-md-9">
        <p className="lead">Your support helps us to make a more competitive and innovative legal ecosystem and helps us provide services to hundreds of thousands of users. Today we're asking for your support so that 2020 &mdash; our tenth year! &mdash; can be the best year ever for RECAP, CourtListener, and all we do.
        </p>
    </div>
    <div className="col-xs-12 col-sm-4 col-md-3">
        <span className="pull-right"><a href="https://www.courtlistener.com/donate/?referrer=2019-big-button" className="btn btn-lg btn-danger">Donate Now</a></span>
    </div>
</div>

Read on to learn more about what we've been up to this year or click above to give us your support.


## FLP's Year in Review

Our mission is to make the legal world more fair and competitive. We do that by collecting and distributing as much legal information as possible. In 2019, by nearly any measure, we have been wildly successful at these tasks:

  - We more than quadrupled the size of the RECAP Archive, bringing it to [more than one hundred million docket entries][100M].
   
  - We [nearly doubled the number of people using the RECAP Extensions][20k], such that on a given day RECAP users send us around 1,500 PDFs, which we dutifully post to CourtListener and the Internet Archive. In 2019 we added 1.3M documents to our collection &mdash; 800k more than in 2018!
  
  - We've finally [wrapped up getting financial disclosure reports][jfdr] for all federal judges across a number of years. This is the culmination of a two year effort gathering them from the federal government and next year we plan to post them in our judge database.
  
  - We are slowly enhancing our database of judges to be more complete and up to date.

On the distribution side, we're making huge strides as well. People are using CourtListener more than ever to share legal information and research their work, and more organizations than ever are now using our APIs or database replication to hatch their own innovative projects. 

We're also proud to be working more with news organizations to help them do deep investigative work. During the Trump administration, we've seen innumerable political battles unfold via the courts. We've been proud to help the media cover these cases. 

It should come as no surprise though that our mission would be easier if legal data were easier to get, and so we've spent more time than ever in 2019 lobbying for change. As a 501(c)(3) we are limited in the amount of lobbying we can do, but we've had discussions this year with numerous Congressional staffers and even a presidential candidate. We're hopeful that in 2020 these conversations will catalyze into increased judicial transparency and an improved, free PACER system. We also spent a week in Chile advising their court modernization effort.

Finally, 2019 was a big year for expanding and maturing the organization itself. We spent over $14,000 this year on computer hardware, bringing huge speed gains to our website and APIs. The result of this investment is that we are ready for at least the next five years of growth. 

[100M]: https://twitter.com/FreeLawProject/status/1166489912570368000
[20k]: https://twitter.com/FreeLawProject/status/1182719863472541696
[jfdr]: https://twitter.com/FreeLawProject/status/1187061246098411520

## Please Support Our Work

All of the achievements and initiatives above took considerable effort, and will lead to a more open, transparent, and innovative judicial system. In 2020, with your support, we hope to do even more.

If you have benefited from our work this year or if you find our work valuable, we ask that you **please donate today**. 

Free Law Project is a federally recognized 501(c)(3) non-profit. Donations are tax deductible. 

<p><a href="https://www.courtlistener.com/donate/?referrer=2019-big-button-2" className="btn btn-lg btn-danger">Donate Now</a></p>


## The 2019 Free Law Project Index

34 million — the number of times computers used our APIs

<!--
In [10]: from datetime import date, timedelta

In [11]: dates = ['api:v3.d:%s.count' %
                     (date(2019, 12, 31) - timedelta(days=x)).isoformat()
                     for x in range(0, 365)]

In [13]: from cl.lib.redis_utils import make_redis_interface

In [14]:     r = make_redis_interface('STATS')

In [16]: sum(
            [int(result) for result in
             r.mget(*dates) if result is not None]
        )
Out[16]: 34367665
-->


4.1 million — how many of those requests were from the RECAP Extensions (thank you!)

<!--
out = invert_user_logs('2019-01-01', '2019-12-31')
out['recap']
-->

---

198,000 — how many minutes of oral arguments we added to our Oral Argument archive

<!--
from cl.audio.models import Audio

Audio.objects.filter(date_created__gt='2019-01-01').aggregate(Sum('duration'))
{'duration__sum': 11903785}

11903785 / 60
198396
-->

7.2 — how many times you could watch every [Law & Order episode][landw] instead of listening to all the oral argument we added this year

[landw]: https://www.bingeclock.com/s/law-and-order/

----

80 million - the number of pages of PACER documents we have in the RECAP Archive

403 tons — how much the entire RECAP Archive would weigh, if printed on single-sided 8½×11 paper

8,000 tons - the weight of the books in the Library of Congress if they average one pound each

<!--
In [1]: from django.db.models import Sum

In [3]: from cl.search.models import RECAPDocument

In [4]: RECAPDocument.objects.filter(is_available=True).aggregate(Sum('page_count'))
Out[4]: {'page_count__sum': 80712422}

1000 pages = 10 pounds
2000 pounds = 1 ton
-->

---

2.1 million — the number of PACER dockets added to the RECAP Archive in 2019

<!--
In[56]: Docket.objects.filter(date_created__gte='2019-01-01', source__in=Docket.RECAP_SOURCES).count()
Out[56]: 2090964
-->

61 million - the number of docket entries added

<!--
In [57]: from cl.search.models import DocketEntry

In [58]: DocketEntry.objects.filter(date_created__gte='2019-01-01').count()
Out[58]: 61495215
-->

305,000 - the number of entries added per work day in 2019

<!-- Above divided by 200 -->

---

<!--
1.3 million — the number of PACER documents added
-->
<!--
In [6]: RECAPDocument.objects.filter(is_available=True, date_created__gte='2019-01-01').count()
Out[6]: 1352515
-->

<!--30 million — the number of pages from those documents-->

<!--
In [5]: RECAPDocument.objects.filter(is_available=True, date_created__gte='2019-01-01').aggregate(Sum('page_count'))
Out[5]: {'page_count__sum': 30241846}
-->

100% — the percent increase we saw in RECAP Extension users in 2019

[ccc]: https://twitter.com/courtlistener/status/996523903768920064



## Thank You <i className="fa fa-heart-o"></i>

This past year we have had [support from many sources][thanks] including individuals, organizations, and academic departments, too numerous to list here. 

Thank you all for your generous support as we head into the next year.

[thanks]: /thanks/
